Network performance profiling how-to (#145)
ROCm/rocprofiler-systems: docs/how-to/nic-profiling.rst

Reviewer: You may also want to add a link to <.../install/install.html#configuring-papi-to-collect-hardware-counters> (please double-check that link. :)) to note that setting the `perf_event_paranoid` level to <= 2 is essential to accessing these counters with PAPI.

  | net:::enp7s0:tx:fif           |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit fif           |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:coll          |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit coll          |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:carrie        |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit carrie        |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:compresse     |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit compresse     |
  |-------------------------------|---------|-----------|-------------------------------|

For example, configuration parameters to track bytes and packets sent and received for the
NIC enp7s0 should be configured as follows:

.. code-block:: shell

  ROCPROFSYS_PAPI_EVENTS = net:::enp7s0:tx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:byte net:::enp7s0:tx:packet net:::enp7s0:rx:packet

Configuration
=============

An example of parameter settings can look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_FREQ=10
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_SAMPLING=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_TIMEMORY_COMPONENTS=wall_clock papi_array network_stats
  ROCPROFSYS_NETWORK_INTERFACE=enp7s0
  ROCPROFSYS_PAPI_EVENTS=net:::enp7s0:tx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:packet net:::enp7s0:tx:packet

> Let's look at what these settings mean:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at what these settings mean, in order:
```

> * sampling frequency: 10 per second
> * timemory configuration: wall_clock, papi_array, network_stats
> * network interface: ``enp7s0``
> * PAPI events: ``net:::enp7s0:tx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:byte net:::enp7s0:tx:packet net:::enp7s0:rx:packet``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sampling Frequency: 10 samples per second
* Using Timemory to output summaries for the:wall_clock, papi_array, and network_stats components
* Network Interface: ``enp7s0``
* Events for network device ``enp7s0`` to be sampled: Bytes transmitted, Bytes received, Packet transmitted, Packets received
```

> Here is a complete prog.cfg configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of a complete configuration file, ``rocprofsys.cfg``:
```
I renamed from prog to avoid the spellcheck error. "rocprofsys" is already in the dictionary.

.. code-block:: shell

  ROCPROFSYS_VERBOSE=1
  ROCPROFSYS_DL_VERBOSE=1
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_FREQ=10
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_DELAY=0.05
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_CPUS=0-9
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_GPUS=$env:HIP_VISIBLE_DEVICES
  ROCPROFSYS_TRACE=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_PROFILE=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_SAMPLING=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_PROCESS_SAMPLING=OFF
  ROCPROFSYS_TIME_OUTPUT=OFF
  ROCPROFSYS_FILE_OUTPUT=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_TIMEMORY_COMPONENTS=wall_clock papi_array network_stats
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_PID=OFF
  ROCPROFSYS_OUTPUT_PREFIX=prog/
  ROCPROFSYS_NETWORK_INTERFACE=enp7s0
  ROCPROFSYS_PAPI_EVENTS = net:::enp7s0:tx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:packet net:::enp7s0:tx:packet

In order to build and run a trace, some environment variables need to be set. Here is an example setting:

.. code-block:: shell

>   ROCPROFSYS_CONFIG_FILE=/path/to/prog.cfg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ROCPROFSYS_CONFIG_FILE=/path/to/rocprofsys.cfg
```

  ROCPROFSYS_OUTPUT_PATH=rocprofsys-tests-output

>   ROCPROFSYS_OUTPUT_PREFIX=/path/to/proto

Reviewer: Neither are explicitly required. You could also define them in your configuration file, if you want them customized. 
I just don't want to confuse the reader into thinking that they are a hard requirement.

Author: Removed.

> These settings are for the ROCm Systems Profiler configuration file, output path and output prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setting defines the location of the ROCm Systems Profiler configuration file.
```

> An example omnitrace-instrument command is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example rocprof-sys-instrument command is:
```

.. code-block:: shell

>   rocprof-sys-instrument -o prog.inst  \
>     --log-file mylog.log --verbose --debug \
>     "--print-instrumented" "functions" "-e" "-v" "2" "--caller-include" \
>     "inner" "-i" "4096" "--" ./prog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  rocprof-sys-instrument -o foo.inst  \
    --log-file mylog.log --verbose --debug \
    "--print-instrumented" "functions" "-e" "-v" "2" "--caller-include" \
    "inner" "-i" "4096" "--" ./foo
```
Just renamed to avoid adding "prog" as an exception to the spell check dictionary. `foo` is consistent with other examples in the documentation.

> This command generates an instrumented binary ``prog.inst``. Then we can run
> it with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command generates an instrumented binary ``foo.inst``. Then, we can run
it with the following command:
```

.. code-block:: shell

>   rocprof-sys-run -- ./prog.inst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  rocprof-sys-run -- ./foo.inst
```

.. meta::
   :description: ROCm Systems Profiler network performance profiling
   :keywords: rocprof-sys, rocprofiler-systems, ROCm, tips, how to, profiler, tracking, NIC, network, AMD

********************************************
Network performance profiling
********************************************

`ROCm Systems Profiler <https://github.com/ROCm/rocprofiler-systems>`_ supports network profiling.

All network events that can be traced on the system can be listed by running the command:

.. code-block:: shell

    rocprof-sys-avail -H -r net

> For example, if the system's NIC is enp7s0, then the output of that command that is related to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if the system's NIC is enp7s0, then the output of this command looks like:
```

  | net:::enp7s0:rx:fif           |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 receive fif            |
  | net:::enp7s0:rx:fram          |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 receive fram           |
  | net:::enp7s0:rx:compresse     |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 receive compresse      |
  | net:::enp7s0:rx:multicas      |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 receive multicas       |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:byte          |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit byte          |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:packet        |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit packet        |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:error         |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit error         |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:droppe        |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit droppe        |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:fif           |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit fif           |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:coll          |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit coll          |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:carrie        |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit carrie        |
  | net:::enp7s0:tx:compresse     |   CPU   |   true    | enp7s0 transmit compresse     |
  |-------------------------------|---------|-----------|-------------------------------|

> For example, configuration parameters to track bytes and packets sent and received for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To track bytes and packets sent and received by the NIC ``enp7s0``, the configuration parameters should be configured as the following example:
```

> NIC enp7s0 should be configured as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

.. code-block:: shell

  ROCPROFSYS_PAPI_EVENTS = net:::enp7s0:tx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:byte net:::enp7s0:tx:packet net:::enp7s0:rx:packet

Configuration
=============

> An example of parameter settings can look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A sample configuration parameter settings looks like:
```

.. code-block:: shell

  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_FREQ=10
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_SAMPLING=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_TIMEMORY_COMPONENTS=wall_clock papi_array network_stats
  ROCPROFSYS_NETWORK_INTERFACE=enp7s0
  ROCPROFSYS_PAPI_EVENTS=net:::enp7s0:tx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:packet net:::enp7s0:tx:packet

> Let's look at what these settings mean, in order:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Details of the configuration parameter settings configured in the example are:
```

> * Sampling Frequency: 10 samples per second

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Sampling Frequency**: 10 samples per second
```

> * Using Timemory to output summaries for the:wall_clock, papi_array, and network_stats components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **TIMEMORY**:  Outputs the summaries for the ``wall_clock``, ``papi_array``, and ``network_stats`` components.
```

> * Network Interface: ``enp7s0``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Network Interface**: ``enp7s0`` is the predictable network interface device name.
```

> * Events for network device ``enp7s0`` to be sampled: Bytes transmitted, Bytes received, Packet transmitted, Packets received

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Events for the network device to be sampled**: Bytes transmitted, bytes received, packets transmitted, and packets received.
```

> Here is an example of a complete configuration file, ``rocprofsys.cfg``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration parameter settings can be saved in a configuration file. Here is an example of a complete configuration file, ``rocprofsys.cfg``:
```

.. code-block:: shell

  ROCPROFSYS_VERBOSE=1
  ROCPROFSYS_DL_VERBOSE=1
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_FREQ=10
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_DELAY=0.05
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_CPUS=0-9
  ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_GPUS=$env:HIP_VISIBLE_DEVICES
  ROCPROFSYS_TRACE=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_PROFILE=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_SAMPLING=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_PROCESS_SAMPLING=OFF
  ROCPROFSYS_TIME_OUTPUT=OFF
  ROCPROFSYS_FILE_OUTPUT=ON
  ROCPROFSYS_TIMEMORY_COMPONENTS=wall_clock papi_array network_stats
  ROCPROFSYS_USE_PID=OFF
  ROCPROFSYS_OUTPUT_PREFIX=foo/
  ROCPROFSYS_NETWORK_INTERFACE=enp7s0
  ROCPROFSYS_PAPI_EVENTS = net:::enp7s0:tx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:byte net:::enp7s0:rx:packet net:::enp7s0:tx:packet

> Specify the configuration file by setting ``ROCPROFSYS_CONFIG_FILE``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To specify the configuration file, use the ``ROCPROFSYS_CONFIG_FILE`` setting:
```

.. code-block:: shell

  ROCPROFSYS_CONFIG_FILE=/path/to/rocprofsys.cfg

This setting defines the location of the ROCm Systems Profiler configuration file.

.. note::

>    In order to collect network counters via PAPI, ensure the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To collect network counters using Process Application Program Interface (PAPI), ensure that
```

>    `/proc/sys/kernel/perf_event_paranoid` has a value <= 2. See

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   `/proc/sys/kernel/perf_event_paranoid` has a value <= 2. See
```

>    :ref:`rocprofsys_papi_events`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :ref:`rocprof-sys_papi_events`
```
https://github.com/ROCm/rocprofiler-systems/blob/beae5e5b44c277aa395c8235c4acf23ce7b5633c/docs/how-to/configuring-runtime-options.rst?plain=1#L139

   for details.

Instrumenting and running a program
===================================

An example rocprof-sys-instrument command is:

.. code-block:: shell

  rocprof-sys-instrument -o foo.inst  \
    --log-file mylog.log --verbose --debug \
    "--print-instrumented" "functions" "-e" "-v" "2" "--caller-include" \
    "inner" "-i" "4096" "--" ./foo

> This command generates an instrumented binary ``foo.inst``. Then, we can run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command generates an instrumented binary ``foo.inst``. Then, run
```

it with the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

  rocprof-sys-run -- ./foo.inst

> We can view the generated .proto file in the browser, by opening

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view the generated ``.proto`` file in the browser, open the
```

> `Perfetto UI page <https://ui.perfetto.dev/>`_. Open that page, click on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Perfetto UI page <https://ui.perfetto.dev/>`_. Then, click on
```

> ``Open trace file`` and select the .proto file. In the browser it looks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``Open trace file`` and select the ``.proto`` file. In the browser, it looks
```
